>> I'm here basically because we know that there's a lot
of attendees here at WWDC who this is their first time.
And so I'm just going to spend maybe about
five minutes giving those of you who are new
to Core Image a quick overview, very, very quick.
And then we're going to bring the engineering
guys up to dive very deep on it.
So the basics of Core Image.
This is an image processing framework that we first
distributed in Tiger and now it's updated in Leopard.
And the whole idea is to be able to
do image processing very, very fast.
And it does this by leveraging the GPU that's shipped
in all the machines that we, that we support in Leopard.
Under the hood it's actually using OpenGL to load
fragment programs that encapsulate the image filters,
and the image processing effects that we want to do.
And so you know, the idea there is that there's a, there's
some of you in the audience who have done image processing,
you've written it yourself in the past,
and typically done that work in the CPU.
And so, and perhaps you're doing
something where you're just you know,
in a four loop running a convolution filter over an image.
But by moving that onto the GPU, you can essentially kind of
push all of the pixels through in a very parallel fashion,
and they run on the back end with this fragment program,
and so basically lets us do some very heavy lifting
for you, and use the GPU to do the hard work.
Of course the whole pipeline is floating point, it's
color managed, there's a lot of image processing filters
that are included in the bundle that you get in Leopard.
And then now also you can extend the base set.
If you have a custom filter that you
would like to write, you can do that,
and then you bundle it up in a plug in called a image unit.
So the basic idea here, just the very, very
basic concept of course is that you're,
you're doing per pixel operations on an image.
And so here on the left we have a picture of Copenhagen.
We're running all of the pixels through a hue
adjustment filter, which is basically just,
if you think of the color wheel, just sort
of rotating the whole color wheel around.
And so you know, blues kind of change in this case
to oranges, oranges sort of rotate around to blues.
But you know, like if you look at the boats for
example, there's a white boat and a black boat,
and those are staying white and black in the final
image, because you know, what are you doing there?
You're kind of rotating a gray
around different grays, right?
So that's what a hue adjustment filter is doing.
But so the output of this of course
is the image on the right.
But it goes a lot further than that.
The real idea is that the filters over the you know,
a hundred different filters, or
you can repeat filters as well.
They can be chained together to kind of stack
different operations on top of each other.
And so we start again the same
way, original image of Copenhagen,
we're running that through a hue adjustment filter.
And then as a second step we get, we take that
image and run it through a blending filter,
and that's how we're adding this sort of
starburst effect onto the final image on the right.
But it actually works a lot smarter than that.
It's not doing these step by step processes,
sort of completing a whole image and then going
through to the next part, and completing
another image, and so on.
What it'll do is, these filters are kind of like
recipes, and it'll chain the filters together,
compile them essentially into a single
unit so that each pixel only has to run
through kind of to the, you know, one set of recipes.
So by chaining these filters together, we still get the
same final image, but it's a much more efficient approach.
Now the reason why this is so important is because
of the optimization possibilities in this case.
So here we have just a lot of filters kind
of going from a start image to an end image.
You know, same thing, hue adjustment,
we're adding that blending filter,
it looks like we have a pointelized filter being applied.
And so, you know, but the thing is like let's just
imagine if that fourth dot on the right was a crop filter.
Then by optimizing this all together into sort of
one big recipe, we're able to eliminate the work
of the pixels that are going to be cropped out.
There's no reason to run those pixels through
the hue adjustment, through the blend,
if they're just going to get discarded at the end of the chain.
Okay? So that's just, that's the very basic idea of how
core image is working, and now to show a demo of that
and go much deeper in the session, I'd like
to bring up Frank Doepke
who is going to take us the rest of the way.
>> Thank you Allan.
( applause )
Can you go back to slides please?
Thank you.
Okay, good afternoon.
My name is Frank Doepke,
working on the Core Image team.
I hope you all had a nice lunch.
Let's take bets if Paris Hilton's lunch was better.
So as Allan showed already nicely how to use Core
Image to demonstrate the effects of global warming
on Copenhagen, although I heard it's raining there.
I would like to dive a little bit deeper.
He gave us a nice overview, but let's look
a little bit more what we can really do
with Core Image, and how all this stuff works.
And I'm picking actually one of
the demos that we actually have
on your Leopard disk, it's the image unit UI demo, IUUI.
And so let's have a look actually what we can do with this.
And I would like to go back to the demo machine.
So this is a really, really small application.
If you look at the code base, if you want to take that
code and read it to your child to put it to sleep at night,
you might take some extra reading, it's really small.
Plus it's riveting, so he would not fall asleep over that.
( laughter )
We are on the wrong machines, thank you.
Ha, now you see the same thing as I see, good.
Okay. So what this is, we have a little
image here, and I already brought up now,
oh let me do it again so that you see where it comes from.
We have a little filter browser, and now
you can see I have a whole set of filters.
We have like all these different adjustments,
we have blur filters, I can pick one,
I can see a little preview of it here, Gaussian blur.
As Allan said, there's a set of over a hundred.
Unfortunately he's not up to date, it's over
125 filters that %we have already.
And this browser's actually part of our new
NetWare that we already provide you for it.
So I can see what the filter does, and
now let's make some image adjustments.
So I'm not a graphic artist, so
bear with me, I'm not the best one.
And, I want to do something
that looks like an old photo,
let me start with something like sepia, always a favorite.
So I added to it, now I have a sepia
filter, I can adjust here on the image.
Now next I want to give it a little
of a gloomy effect, and there it is.
You see, just typing, I find my gloom filter.
Now it looks like almost like a faded image
already, and although there's like multiple filters,
I can adjust each of them, and you see this actually
happening in real time, going through all the pixels.
Now let me add actually in between those
two filter, like a gamma adjust filter.
Oops, if I can type here, there we go.
So, now I have like some nice effect and make it like, well,
looks like an old photo that you probably find in your attic
from your grandmother or something like that.
Now what I can do is I can actually export this
filter, and let me save it, I can call this old photo.
And I can give it some description,
I'll skip this for the moment, yeah.
And on the sepia tone filter I want to export
that you can later on use to input intensity.
And I do the same on the gloom, and
actually leave both the same name.
What this means actually is I'll take both of
them and adjust them later on as one control.
And let me also from the Gamma Adjust,
I want to have the input power.
So I'll export this now, and you go, and the nice
part now is I can just bring this into our library,
we go into the graphics folder, into image units,
and save it right there.
So let's quit for now the image in the demo application, and
for those who've already worked with Core Image on Tiger,
they probably know the Core Image funhouse
application, this is our old school way of doing things.
And now I can go in Copenhagen, must be
our city favorite today, and I can go,
this is now the old way how we did the
browser there that was all done by hand.
If you want to do it by hand, so
this is the sample to look at.
And now I can go into my stylized
filter and I see old photo.
I can apply this one.
It looks like one filter that I just put together.
And now you can see the intensity takes a sepia
together with subdue.
( applause )
Thank you.
Okay. Instead I would like to go back to the slides please.
So how did we do all this stuff?
So let's get to know Core Image a little bit more.
Core Image is all about doing this stuff on the GPU.
So we do it very fast on the graphics card.
We have, as Allan already said, a full floating-point,
color-managed pipeline, and I will go into some details on that later.
As I said, we have over 125 filters,
so there's plenty for you already to play around with.
And if you have filter ideas and you want to write
your own effects, go ahead, write an image unit.
And you can, as you can see, you can
like make it available for everybody.
The key point about these filters is the filter kernel.
And this filter kernel actually is architecture independent.
And that allows you that, for instance as we can do it here.
If the GPU, so it has to be fragment program L. Or if this
is not the case, that means you will fall back to the CPU.
And there we can actually go to the SSE, we can do the
velocity engine for the PowerPC chip, and we can also do,
as you saw already in the keynote,
is the whole thing in 64-bit.
So those are the key points about what Core Image is about.
Now what do you need to work with Core Image?
First of all, you need an image.
And that is really the object that
represents really what we have to render.
Now image, we always think of it
more like as a pixel bucket.
This is not the case, this is more rendering recipes.
It really just captures like all the steps that
it has to do to really later on render onto it.
And we have the filters.
And the filters actually have the processing kernels,
and those will be the ones that apply the effects.
They typically have a set of parameters.
Some of them actually don't, but most of them have like
input images, and radius as we saw already in the demo.
And they produce one output image, and
that's what you want to then later on draw.
You need to draw it, you need a context.
And that's a CIContext.
So this is where all the rendering of CI later on goes.
It can be based on an OpenGL context, or a CGContext.
There is something special about this core graphics
context, I will go into some of these details later,
especially for those who have already
worked with it on Tiger.
Okay. Let's do it once more and step by step.
We start with a CIContext.
Can somebody behind the stage shut up?
I hear some voices, and somebody's
talking on the phone, that's not too good.
Okay, so we start with a context, then
we have an image from some image data,
from a file or that you have from data in memory.
Next we create a filter object, and if you
need more than one filter you just repeat that.
And next step is we need to set
the parameters on the filter.
So now you set your radius and your
intensity, and stuff like this.
And last step but not least, I
have to click it once, there we go.
We draw the whole output into the context.
That's it.
That's all what you need to do to draw this core image.
How does it work?
One thing that's important to know is Core Image is lazy.
We all are, but Core Image is specifically lazy.
The reason for this, we have a lazy valuation.
This allows us actually to defer all the
rendering really at the, until the draw time.
So we are not like when you apply your
filter immediately rendering anything.
Nothing's happening, so this is
pretty much like for free I would say.
With this deferred rendering, what we can
do is we can concatenate this further.
So we will look at all these filters, and then really see
okay, we really only need to touch these and these pixels,
and we can also combine some of these
filters together to get a combined effect.
So this is happening at run time
with a just-in-time compiler.
And the benefits of course is first of all that we have
way better performance, because we can do multiple things
in one pipeline rather than doing
it step by step by step by step.
And also it allows us way better precision, cause we do
not (inaudible) between any of the intermediate steps.
As we said, we do color management.
So what does this mean?
The whole output is color management.
We go from an input image, and bring this into our
working space in which we do all our rendering.
This working space is Generic Linear RGB.
It's light linear, and it has an infinite gamut.
This way allows us to do all the further processing, will
not create any banning because we run out of a gamut space.
And then we go to the output space.
In the diagram this looks like this.
You see a bunch of images basically coming
in, all the filters doing the work.
And in the end it gets put into
the target output, target context.
So you might set up that output context
to whatever color space you want.
And the images now may have a color space attached
to them, or if you have something that you rendered
on your own, you might have to set that yourself.
So we say we can do this really, really fast.
Now you saw in the demo that was already pretty fast.
But let's talk a little bit more about the performance.
First of all, we have a little tool that we use internally
to measure if we are really doing everything correctly.
It's called CIBenchmark.
And what we show here is, we did a little trick.
Normally Core Image will use, depending on how many
cores you have available, the right amount of threads
and scale nicely across (inaudible) scaling.
So we did a little trick that we can actually turn
off threads and actually see how well do we scale.
And as you can see there with the first thread, you need
about 8 Mpixels up to 33 Mpixels
when we use really all eight threads
on an eight core machine.
Now how does the graphic card stack up to this?
And this was actually a run of
the middle graphics card almost,
it's a 7300 from NVIDIA,
nothing really too fancy,
and it still beats the eight core
machine, and twice on Sunday.
So let's look at another filter here,
we'll just pick up something special here.
It's the ExposureAdjust. It's just a really simple filter.
See again, we scale nicely over the eight
course, let's look at the graphics card, boom.
As Steve would say.
( laughter )
Now CIConics, this is a really computation
intensive filter in this (inaudible) bound.
We compare that with the graphics card,
it's still faster, but not as much.
So your mileage varies a little bit depending on
which filters you use and how you combine them.
Now one part that we are proud of is that we
are faster than ever than we've been in Tiger.
So let's compare like the CIGaussianBlur specifically.
Now it's fast enough actually like even
on our low end platform, like the MacBook,
that you can actually run effects in real
time on the GPU with the Gaussian blur,
because we are oh about over nine times
faster than what we've been in Tiger.
( applause )
Thank you.
So those were charts.
Let's show it off.
And now comes the tricky part.
We had some technical problems with this
machine, so let's pray that this will work.
Okay, where is my mouse, okay there.
And I'm missing something here.
Yeah, there should have been actually
something that's on this machine.
(inaudible), sorry.
Ahh, okay.
This was actually the person responsible
to make the filters much faster, so.
( laughter )
All right.
So we have a little image here,
let's apply some effects to this.
And now what we are doing here is, you see this is now
with one thread, basically on this eight core machine.
And we will now be going up and make this a little
bit faster by using two, going forward three,
going forward to four cores by now, and you
see how this effect slowly goes most around?
But it gets faster and faster by the more cores
we're actually using by using our threads.
So just (inaudible), it's nothing that you have to do in
your code, this is just a sample actually by something
that we can do by turning off threads in Core Image.
And you see it scales nicely, going all the way pretty fast.
Let's see what the GPU can do.
There we go.
( laughter )
And instead we'd like to go back to the slides please.
( applause )
Thank you.
>> At that one point that was better GPU.
>> Yeah, in all fairness this is a high end GPU,
course almost as small as a small car.
I don't know if that's quite true, but it is the Quadro
card from NVIDIA, so this is really a high end one.
But even the 7300
was still faster than the 8 cores.
So the one part that I showed you in the image unit demo
application is that I was able to take a bunch of filters,
chain them together, and export them as one new filter
that we used in the funhouse, my old photo filter.
So this is what we call the CIFilterGenerator.
This is new in Leopard.
It allows you to concatenate multiple
filters and wrap them into one filter.
And it can be stored so that you can reuse it as a macro.
Now how does it work?
It's all about connecting the filters.
So when you want to do this, you need to
connect basically a source to a target filter.
The source can actually be already an image,
this is something that I didn't show in this demo.
But you can just provide a path,
and then you have a default image.
That's important when you use a filter
that needs an environment map for instance.
Now if you want to declare basically, like as I
set the little checkbox, this means like okay,
this input of this filter I want to later
on export to the customer to be used.
And I can actually with this way also set my own
parameters, and I can combine as we showed already,
like I take the same input key on multiple
filters and actually channel it into one,
so I can control multiple aspects through one control.
You can set your own attributes.
This is important when you for instance sometimes
have this particular problem that you have a filter,
but it has a way too high maximum value for your production.
So you can actually set a normal now
default where the maximum value is smaller.
And one thing that's important is you
always need to declare an output image.
As I said, every filter has at least an output image.
And then you write this for the generators
until it's actually a plist document.
And every application that supports image units
will automatically support this new filter.
Now you saw that we have UI, as I showed already the filter
browser, and all the stuff that happened in the filter panel
in the image UI demo application, hence the name,
now has in a way of like actually using an
automatically created UI from the filter.
So this was a big request that we got from
you from those work requirements in Tiger,
where when you looked at like the old
funhouse application had lots of code in there
to create all these panels, now this is all there for you.
And you actually get a view based
on the filter with all its controls.
You can configure the size, if you want
small, medium, or the regular size controls.
And you can exclude also certain keys,
like if you look in the (inaudible),
all of these filters do have an input
image, but they didn't show up in the panel
because it's already the input
image coming from the document.
And if you write image units, and you say well
I want to have, really have my own look to it,
you can provide it with your own branding as well.
And then we have the filter browser.
The filter browser allows you nicely to pick the
filters, you can get them as a view so you can embed it
into your windows, you can get it as a
sheet or as a panel, just as you like it.
And you see all the filters, you get the description.
And one part that I didn't show was
very much like the font panel.
You can collect your favorites.
If you have a favorite set of filters, you can put
them into the favorite and find them very easily.
And all of this is actually in the image kit framework.
So since this is a little bit higher level
abstraction which depends a lot on AppKit,
you have to go into image kit and
find the headers for it there.
Now in general we have some new API.
Also, for those who already worked with
it, let's have a quick look over that.
We did some refinements all over the place based on your
feedback again, and we have now convenience functions
for some of the common tasks, for
instance to create an empty image,
this was one of the things that was not so easy before.
Now we have also constants for all the common keys in
the filters, so this allows you actually to just type
in KCI input image, and export should
do the code completion for you.
That makes life a little bit easier there.
And you can also now provide documentation for your filters.
If you write your own filter, and you want to of
course explain to the user what this filter does,
you can actually provide a UL, and actually
see a video documentation for the filter.
Now clip in your bindings, we are not going skiing, but
what this means is Core Image is using key-value-coding.
And one thing that didn't work in Tiger, but that works
in Leopard now, is that you can observe the output image.
What that means is for instance if I have filter A,
and I can take the output image, put it into filter B,
and then that output image into filter C. When I do
this, and I changed in Tiger something on filter A,
I would have to again, take the output image,
put it into filter B, take that output image,
put it into filter C. You don't have to do that any more.
In Leopard it would automatically observe if something
changed on filter A, it propagates all the way through,
and filter C is the only one where I have
to observe the output image and draw.
Makes life much, much easier that way.
So this allows you to always automatically
update your filter chain.
And as I said, we have new filters, let me just
showcase a little bit of what we have here in filters.
So this is just a little overview,
and might be even some more coming.
So try those out, play around with them,
and I give you a tip how to try those out.
Comes in a moment.
Now I already mentioned that we can either create an
OpenGL context, or a CGContext as the base for CI.
With Quartz GL, which is new in Leopard, we have
actually something special on the CGContext.
In the past when you used the CG-based context,
what happened was CI did all its rendering
up on the graphics card really spiffy and
fast, but since CG was of course bitmap based,
it had to read all the stuff back,
and then composite in the CG space.
Now this reading back from the graphic card is not really
coming for free, this is actually relatively costly.
Now when you use Leopard, and your application opts
in to use OpenGL, you can create a CGContext,
you don't have to write any OpenGL
code, and everything stays on the GPU.
And we can show this already, like if you look at
the HazeFilter sample, the TransitionSelector,
and even the Exposure sample, those three have
already been converted by actually just using
in this case the any reports GL key and the info plist
as also a way to do that on a window by window base.
Now let's see actually what is the
performance difference between those two.
So on the left side you see it took, and I just
did this as a quick test, the CIHazeFilter.
It took about 150 milliseconds to render the
old way when I had a CGContext and used a CIFilter.
If I turn on Quartz GL and opt into this, it takes
four milliseconds, a little bit of a difference there.
So this is it. There are some tools also that makes life
a little bit easier for you to develop this core image.
First of all, debugging.
We all have to do that at one point.
And for that we can use Quartz Debug now.
It knows which filters get executed, and you
can actually see which filters are in there.
Sometimes you might be surprised, there might be a filter
in your pipeline you didn't think that you had in there.
And you can see how long it takes, especially
for those who do like video applications,
you need to find out if everything happens in real time.
You can figure out okay, what is
the time spent on those filters.
So look at Quartz Debug for debugging.
Next we have a widget.
This is actually coming with Leopard.
And it's in the developer tools, I think right
now it's installed under extras Core Image.
It should later on actually even like be right
in the dock when you have Xcode installed.
You can browse the filters for image like
the (inaudible), you can find filters.
But this is more in tune for the developers
because you actually can get to know the filters.
You see the, all the keys set out there for
the filters, and all the parameters for those.
And you can actually check as you can see, oh
well it's probably a little bit hard to read.
But you see there's a little line that tells you if this
filter is available in 10.5 or 10.4.
You can try them out, because you
see this preview down there?
You can drag in your own images and
see actually how that looks like.
That's the way how to test out
these new filters that we have.
And one neat feature is that you can copy the code.
So if you found the filter that you like in the widget,
hit command C, go back into Xcode, and just paste it in,
and it gives you the completion already like scenes filter
equals CIFilter with name, and all the parameters in there.
That saves you a lot of typing,
that's actually very convenient.
Now as Allan already pointed out,
you can be part of Core Image,
right image units, we have lots of documentations for this.
There's a whole set of like how to do this,
and it guides us to all these little steps.
And we have an Image Unit logo program, so you
can actually put this little icon on your box
and saying I actually support
image units, or upgraded image units.
And now, this was all a little bit dry,
let's bring up mister nine espressos
for the day, Ralph Brunner.
Thank you.
( applause )
>> I do know for a fact there are
people from Copenhagen in the audience.
So let me start with pointing out
a bunch of places in the US
where we use Core Image essentially for UI visual effects.
One you know very well from Tiger is the
Dashboard ripple can have pretty obvious effect,
so I'm not going to spend a lot of time on that.
New in Leopard is the menu bar.
And it was mentioned in the Keynote, and kind of was not
what, wasn't mentioned was why this is actually interesting.
So let me try to explain that a little.
So what the new menu bar does, it has a stack of filters
that examines what is underneath the menu bar.
It computes an average color, and then based
on that average color, starts to adjust values,
like how transparent the bar is, how
much light gets pushed in from the back,
the inside glow, and all these kind of things.
You might think that is, well the purpose
of this is to make sure it looks good
on as many backgrounds as people can possibly have.
You might think that is a bit excessive for something that's
22 pixels high, but the point I'm kind of trying
to make here is a kind of first step to
go beyond standard alpha compositing.
So by actually putting a bit of logic into the filter
that kind of measures what's underneath
and adapt appropriately, you know,
a little bit of that knowledge
that the designer have applied before
is now you know, written in code.
And I expect we are going to do more of that, and that is
something to think about you know, how can you use filters
to gather statistics, and then react,
kind of make your visuals really match.
A second example I'd like to make is in Leopard
underneath the sheet dialog, there
is a small and pretty subtle blur.
It's not clear you can see that in there, if
you floated away from the protected surface.
And again, this is a pretty subtle effect, and kind of
there's a lesson there, is most filters that you would,
would use most special effects you do, you know, they're
just a small touch to kind of enhance the experience.
And that you know, sometimes if you're in an application,
if you build an application that does something you know,
that's really in your face, like think Omni Dazzle.
Then the effect really has to be at the forefront,
but for most applications you really want you know,
subtle touches that just overall improve things.
So with that I'm going to switch gears, and talk
a bit about more advanced use of Core Image.
The example I'm going to explain now is essentially
how do you do color tracking on the GPU.
What we're doing, we're going to take and build
a mask based on a specific color in the image,
we're looking for a specific color, and then compute
you know, the center of gravity of that object,
and then apply an effect based on the
parameters we found at that location.
And that makes much more sense if I actually
show a demo, so let me do that first.
Okay. So what we have here is a video
of a remarkably handsome young man -
( laughter )
>> - waving a pink ball around,
which is kind of silly, but you know,
bear with me, you will see how silly this really gets.
On the right side you see the mask that was found.
Essentially we're looking for pixels that are
looking somewhat like the pink on the right side
in the color well, and then we display that mask.
I can actually overlay that mask
to make this a bit more visible.
So just the white area in the video
is what the filter thinks the mask is.
And based on that mask, we are computing
the center of gravity of that object.
And I will explain in a minute how that works.
And after that we are taking that position and feeding
it into a compositing filter, which does the following.
It takes a duck and puts it in the same place.
( laughter )
And you will notice that there is actually a depth, a
distance estimate going on, so when the ball comes closer,
the duck gets bigger and gets smaller, and that is
done by not only measuring the center of gravity
of the object, it's also measured the visible area.
And based on the visible area, you can compute a distance
estimate, which is essentially one over (inaudible) area.
Okay. So with that I'm going to close
this demo and go back to the slides.
( applause )
So to summarize what's going on here.
So first the mask image by color, and that's
really just essentially a Euclidian distance.
So you take current pixel color
minus pink color,
measure how the distance is in
you know, three dimensional space.
And if it's further away than a certain
threshold then we consider it outside the ball,
otherwise it's inside the ball.
One subtle detail there.
Before the, before that distance
computation, we take the pixel,
and take the pixel's color, and divide it by the luminance.
And the reason is the ball has a shading on it
because the illumination isn't completely uniform.
So by dividing by the luminance you get a solid
pink color, and that makes for a better match.
The next step is for every pixel we take its XY
coordinate and multiply that by that mask, and store that,
and this is the kind of the funky part, store the XY
coordinate that you know, you multiply XY coordinate
as in the pixel as the red and the green components.
So this is where you know, having
floating point images is really useful.
And so at this point you have an image
which is zero everywhere except for the ball
which has you know, little tuples of XY all over it.
And then we use a new filter in
Leopard, the CIAreaAverage,
which computes the average color essentially of an image.
In this case it computes the average
XY coordinate over all the coordinates
in that ball, which gives you the center of gravity.
Now another interesting detail there is that the CIAreaAverage
filter, the output is a single pixel image,
it's an image that's one pixel wide and one pixel high.
And the reason for that is on GPUs it's really hard to
get data from one stage to the next if it's not an image.
So well, let's make it an image.
Floating points should just work.
So the output of that filter is a single pixel, and
that pixel has in the first two components a coordinate,
and in the alpha component the visible area,
which we use for the distance estimate.
And the last step is well, the duck.
So the last step has a filter which takes the video
frame, and it does a secondary image which is that 1x1
pixel image, which is the found coordinate.
And then it scales and composites the duck appropriately.
Oops. So if you would like to learn a bit
more about that, there is actually a chapter
in the upcoming GPU Gems 3
book that describes how this works.
In particular, it also describes how the
CIAreaAverage filter is implemented.
So if you want to do other statistics gathering on the
GPU, which isn't min, max and average which we added
in Leopard, then there you can find how to do this.
So if interested in these kind of
things, it's available in August,
look in your favorite bookstore
for the cover with the friendly face.
( laughter )
Okay. So a second example I would like to
show is kind of similar to the first one,
but now instead of tracking something by
color, we are tracking it by geometry.
And so that just kind of came up in our, as an internal
usage for us because we have to support a large number
of cameras for (inaudible) support which
actually we'll hear about a bit later.
And that involves calibrating these cameras.
And one part, and that's the only part I'm going to
talk about here, is once you have an image with one
of these color charts which have known color values
where you can build your calibration information off,
the part I'm talking about is you have an
image, where in that image is the chart.
And yeah, it's kind of the (inaudible)
version of Where's Waldo?
( laughter )
So the goal is to find the chart, we need the
location, XY coordinate, we need the size, width, height,
and we also would like to have orientation, the rotation
angle, simply because it's sometimes really hard
to make it perfectly straight, so it would
be nice if the filter would handle this.
And we want to do this by looking for geometry and not
for color, because well, do using it for color calibration
so at the beginning color isn't particularly reliable.
So that's why we are looking at tracking geometry.
So with that I have a demo.
Okay. And this involves live video, so that's
usually the place where things go horribly wrong.
( laughter )
So let me stand in front of this camera, okay.
That's by the way the only reason
why I'm wearing this shirt.
( laughter )
So what I'm having here is this color chart, and
where I'm moving this color chart into the frame.
Here is the chart, yeah, it tracks it you know, size
should work reasonably well, angle works most of the time.
Yeah, one interesting thing here is
there's not that much light here,
so if I move the chart fast I get motion
blur, then the detection completely fails.
Interestingly even though there
is actually no code in there,
tilting it away from the projection
plane is still working reasonably well.
But you know, after about 20 degrees or so tracking will fail.
Okay. So one thing I would like to draw your attention to
is that little quarter circle histogram on the right side.
And this is essentially a histogram
over all angles in the image.
And because all of these squares have a,
essentially angles that are ninety degrees apart.
So as I move the chart, you see this
spike moving to different places.
And that gives us you know, the
rotation estimate, how that is done.
Essentially we're running a gradient filter, then a
histogram over the gradients, and then we look for the spike
in that histogram to figure out what
the orientation of the chart is.
Okay, with that I will go back to the slides.
( applause )
Okay. So first step.
As I said, color is not reliable in this application, so
the first thing we're going to do, we convert to grayscale.
And there's kind of the straight forward
way, which is convert to grayscale based
on luminance, and that's what you're seeing here.
So the left side you see the original,
the middle image is based on luminance.
There's also a filter, which is probably the most simple
filter we ship in Leopard, it's the CI maximum component,
which converts to grayscale based
on the maximum red, green, or blue.
And for this particular application, this is perfect.
Because we really want, we want to find these squares,
and we want to you know, differentiate between the squares
and the gaps, and the gaps happen to be black.
And some of these colors on the chart are just
saturated red, saturated green, saturated blue,
so by using the maximum component, I get a more, an
image which has more white or light gray patches,
as you can see here, which helps the detection.
So that's kind of a lesson here if you
want to do these kind of things, you know,
any kind of domain specific knowledge you have, you know,
exploit it, because that makes these things much easier.
Okay. So the next step is called a row projection.
What's happening is we are computing
the average over each scan line.
There is a CRO projection filter in
Leopard, so you can use that one.
And because showing, so what's happening,
you take this image and we create an image
which is one pixel wide and the full height of the image.
And for each pixel will contain
the average of each scan line.
Because showing a one pixel wide
image is really hard on the projector,
what I'm showing here is instead a luminance
plot of that you know, really narrow image.
And what you're seeing in that luminance
plot is there are 10 pulses in there.
Essentially for each row of tiles you get a high
value, and then you have a black gap in between them,
so get a low value and then so on, ten times.
So what we are going to do now is match a pulse signal.
We know we have to look for 10 pulses at 2D.
It's essentially kind of an auto
correlation that we're doing here.
And we try out every start position
and every pulse width.
But because it's a 1D image it's
actually really fast to do this.
And the best fit of those 10 pulses to this signal will
tell us where the chart is in the vertical dimension.
So we know where it starts and how tall it is.
So the next step is called a column projection.
But before we apply that, because we currently just
gathered some information, we know the vertical extent
of the chart, so we can actually crop this image, and
remove everything outside which we know is not chart,
so we're not really interested in
it, and then do a column projection,
which is pretty much equivalent what we did before.
The row projection is just an average
over each scanned row this time.
You will notice that the luminance plot down there,
the pulses and the gaps are now much more pronounced.
And that's the result of that cropping, because we're no
longer diluting the average with stuff that doesn't belong
to the chart, we're getting a really clean signal.
And we do the same thing again with before, we fit
14 pulses on this, we find the start position.
And we also kind of reduce the search space now,
because from the previous pass we know
how tall one of these squares were.
And well, they're supposed to be square, so actually
the width has to be pretty much in the same range.
So we can only search for a very small number of widths
to find to match the pulse signal to this spot.
Now the other creation also gives you kind of a goodness
indicator into how well pulses fit to this chart.
And we can just use a threshold to kind of
determine empirically, to figure out well,
chances are there isn't charting
here at all, it's just you know,
a local maxima that doesn't have any kind of pulse nature.
Okay. And with that we're essentially done.
We found the angle in the beginning,
and rotated the image to make sure
that you know, this row and column projection works.
And we found a vertical extent, the
horizontal extent, and the start positions.
So now we have our chart.
Okay. So with that I would like to kind of
give some conclusions out of that experiment.
So first of all why implement that in a Core Image filter?
Because clearly you could write some C code that
just goes over arrays and does the same thing.
Well some of the advantages you get out
of it is the Core Image runtime will go
and build SSE code velocity engine code, R fragment
(inaudible) GPU for you essentially off the same code base.
So that's really convenient.
The second, as Frank was already mentioning
before, it will scale to eight core machines,
and whatever gets released in the
future, it's probably going to work.
And another aspect is that you don't
have to worry about image formats.
So I did this demo with video which comes in as eight
bit per component by UE, but we actually used that stuff
that comes from still image cameras, and that is
16 bits per component RGB, and the code just works,
because Code Image will convert the proper pieces to
you know, into the space that the filter expects it.
The video playback via Quartz GL point here kind of seems
innocent, but to me that's actually a really profound part.
What you just saw was essentially app
kit in the drawRect function,
and grabbing a video frame and drawing it into CGContext.
And that is possible because of QuartzGL.
Because as the video frame comes in, it gets
uploaded to the GPU, and all the processing
and all the rendering gets done in the GPU.
And this is kind of, this is new in
Leopard, we could never do that before.
You now can actually draw text on top of
video without having to do with child windows
and all these kind of things that are really ugly.
So, I mean to drawRect for this
demo was literally 20 lines of code,
and most of it was to draw the
little bar charts on the side.
And the last point I would like to
make is yeah, mind the color matching.
Turns out when I was debugging this, I had some issues
with you know, trying to find bugs in bin filters.
And what I did, I used the best
debugging tool ever invented, printf.
( laughter )
And I just took the value out of the orientation angle
and printed that in the console, and well it was wrong.
And you know, when you move the chart it
went up and down properly, it was monotonic,
you know, so I'm thinking something was right.
But clearly scale was wrong, and I was wondering
did I forget to multiply by pi or whatever.
( laughter )
And it turns out it's really important to understand
the color matching part of Core Image, because that,
it tries to do the right thing in
terms of you know, processing images.
But once you go and put angles or XY coordinates into
pixels, you probably don't want to color match those.
( laughter )
So a gamma correction on an angle has
really surprising results I can say.
( laughter )
Okay. And with that, the weather.
( applause )
>> Thank you Ralph.
Ralph did a great job of explaining how you can tackle some
very complex image processing problems using Core Image.
I want to talk about another one today,
which is sort of an interesting problem.
So imagine you have an RGB image, and it's missing
50% of its green pixels, 75%,
three quarters of its red pixels, and
three quarters of its blue pixels,
and your job is to recover all the missing pixels.
Sounds impossible.
But in fact this is a fundamental problem
that's, needs to be solved to produce images
out of most image sensors that we see today.
Ranging from disposable cameras, to
high quality video cameras all need
to solve this fundamental problem of
how to recover all this missing data.
As a bonus challange, you need to give those images
to the most discriminating eyes that are available,
and they're going to try to see if there's anything missing.
A visual way of looking at this same problem is
that while your eyes can see an image like this,
what most bare sensors see is an image like this.
And the idea is to be able to recover the full image
in a way that's pleasing and undetectable to the user.
So this problem is generally known as the debayering,
and Apple has been working
on this problem since 2004.
Our algorithms fully leverage SMP and
GPU programming wherever possible.
And we have some new developments coming in this for
Leopard that give us some of the best results we've seen.
So we're very, very happy with
the direction we're going on this.
And as always, we're very concerned about
getting the best performance and the best quality
to meet the demands of the most demanding users.
So let me talk a little bit about
what's involved in RAW image processing.
First of all, we need to be able to decode
the file to get the actual bare sensor data.
And then we need to be able to extract metadata
from that file in order to handle it correctly.
Then we do spatial reconstruction, which involves
de-bayering, interpolating the pixels that are missing,
compensating for noise, chroma blur and luma
sharpening to make the image more pleasing.
Then there's a whole litany of color processing that's
also involved, highlight recovery, adjusting exposure
and temperature/tint, converting from the
scene-referred nature of the sensor values
to the output-referred color space
that is desired for rendering.
And lastly, part of image processing is making
the image not just accurate, but pleasing.
And so there's an additional amount of steps that is often
very desirable to adjust the image to make it look pleasing
to the eye, increasing contrast for example.
So this is a very complex process, and requires
dozens of parameters in order to handle it correctly.
And so for each camera make and model that we support
we have default parameters for all these cameras.
We are also constantly improving our RAW processing methods.
And so the system maintains a set of method
versions that have been supported in the past,
so that applications that need to be able to
reproduce old results can continue to do so.
And lastly as I mentioned before, Leopard has a
new and improved method that greatly includes,
improves handling of moire noise, high ISO noise,
and also adds broader support for D and G formats.
The last thing I want to say though is that even though
we've done all this work to get good default values
for all the cameras, the default parameters are never
going to be perfect for all photographs or all photographers.
There's a high amount of taste and personal
preference that's involved in debayering images.
And so ideally you want to give your
users control over the rendering
of an image to get the best results for your users.
And this is the main benefit of shooting RAW on
cameras, is that you can give your users this control,
because the image has not already
been processed as an in camera JPEG.
In order to provide this as a feature that
you can take advantage of in your application,
we have a new filter in Leopard call CIRAWFilter,
which is designed to give your applications the ability
to give your users control over the RAW processing pipeline.
And also it's designed to give fast interactive performance.
So here's roughly how this works in the process.
You start out with a RAW image, either
URL or data, and today you know,
you can do this in either Tiger or
Leopard using the core graphics APIs.
If you use the core graphics APIs,
we'll use the default parameters,
for example, exposure and temperature and adjustment.
From that URL or data you create a CGImageSource.
From that CGImageSource you can get a CGImageRef.
And then from that CGImageRef
you can draw that to the display.
And this works great and gives you a good default image.
However, if you want to give your users
control over the rendering of this RAW image,
then we have a new ability which
is to use the new CIRAWFilter.
Again, you start with a RAW image, URL or data,
and we're going to create a RAW filter where we add
into it the default user adjustments as input parameters.
This can also be done with key value
bindings, which is really convenient.
From that RAW filter we can extract a CIImage, and from
that C image, CIImage we can display it to the screen.
The great advantage of this way of rendering RAW is that now
you can give the users the ability to control the sliders,
which then get fed back back into the
pipeline, adjusting the input parameters,
and therefore altering the output CIImage.
And this can be done very quickly.
Of course you don't always want to go to the display,
sometimes you need to go to the, an output file to be able
to convert for example a RAW file to a TIFF or a JPEG.
This can be done also using Core Image.
From the CIImage you can create a CGImageRef, and from
the CGImageRef you can use CGImage destination to write
to a file or TIFF, or whatever format you wish.
This is how simple the code is to use this new filter.
It's basically three things that we're
showing how to do in this little code snippet.
We're creating a instance of the CIFilter
by calling filterWithImageURL,
we're then setting in this example
just one option, which is the exposure,
and we're setting the value to
minus one to darken the image a bit.
And lastly, once we've set the input parameters, we get
the output CIImage by asking for the OutputImageKey.
So now let me give a demo of this, and
show you how this works in practice.
So. So one of the key advantages of RAW is that
because you're, you get to do the development yourself,
you get to get a lot more of the
original sensor data out than you would
if you were using an in-camera generated JPEG.
So I want to show a couple examples of images
where you can really see the benefit of that.
So I'm going to go to open here, and I've got pairs of images.
I have an in-camera generated JPEG
and an in-camera generated RAW file.
And we can open these both up.
I should mention real quickly that this application we
have right here is a newer version of what's available
on the SDK, but the principal is the same.
All these sliders and controls that I'll be showing
are also available in the sample code that's
on the disk, and there'll be updates to it soon.
So what we have here is a picture, a
really great picture of the space shuttle
as it's coming out of the vehicle assembly building.
And you can see parts of the image are very bright, and
parts of the images are very dark and in the shadows.
And this is a typical image where you can really benefit
from having controls over how the image is developed.
If we look at this image here, we can see kind of in this
area that there's some strange, I hope you can see it,
strange scion, it's like I don't know what kind of
clouds those are, I don't even really know what's there.
Is that outside or inside?
And if we bring the exposure down to see if it's blown out,
we see that there's nothing, we don't really learn anything
by looking at the exposure, as we bring the exposure down.
If I go and zoom in, you can see it's still
kind of hard to tell what's going on here.
And that's because when this image was converted to JPEG by
the camera, all the values were capped at 255.
So as we bring the exposure down,
there's no content there to reveal.
That's entirely different with RAW files.
With RAW files as you bring the exposure down, you can
actually see the content that was really in the scene,
which is this scion tarp that was present.
And if I zoom in here, not that far, you
can really see the detail in that tarp.
So this is a textbook example of the benefits
you get by manipulating an image, a RAW image.
And again as you see, we're doing that, we're
getting very interactive performance on these things.
So let me set this exposure to minus one exactly.
And now as we look at the image,
let me go back to zoom to fit.
Because we brought the exposure down,
a lot of the dark areas got darker.
And oftentimes that's desirable, it can
make an image look more contrasty.
But other times you want to show detail in those areas.
And this is one of the things we've spent a lot of time
on for the new version of RAW in Leopard, is to give new
and better controls to adjust the shadow areas of an image.
This is parts of images a lot of discriminating
photographers really want to be able to see,
and to gather detail out of the darkest areas of the image.
So as we zoom in here, and let me make sure I'm at the
right level, I'm hoping you can see this on the display.
But I've got two new sliders here, one is one that's
sort of a bias on the exposure that we can bring down.
And as we go down it will make the darks lighter.
And then also there is another adjustment here which also
affects the shadows, and affects how much they're toned.
So if we were to try to do the same thing on the JPEG,
A we don't have some of these controls available,
and oftentimes because it's only an 8-bit image,
making the shadows darker will just leave
you with a very posturized looking image.
Let me look at, see if there's one more image to look at.
Here's another fun set.
Again, with the JPEG we don't have enough controls, if
we want to bring the exposure down we lose a lot of,
we don't get any extra content in the cap clouds,
and we lose all of our detail in the shadows.
When we go into a RAW file we can bring the
exposure down, and continue to see the cloud detail.
And as we bring the shadows up we can
see all the details in the scaffolding.
If I go in, zoom in, you can see all
the corrugated metal on the sides.
Hopefully you can see that up there.
No, it's not quite as visible for you.
So that's what I'd like to show about the RAW.
Again, this is the CIRAWFilter sample.
It's a very simple CIFilter to use, and it'll allow
you to give your users all the controls for this.
So back to the slides.
( applause )
So that's our discussion for today.
I just want to have a few final thoughts.
As we learned from today, you can use Core Image
to process more than just general purpose data.
As Ralph was talking about earlier, you can put information
like XY coordinates and angles in a pixel buffer,
and give it to Core Image to process your data.
Another good bit of advice is you can use Quartz Composer
as a prototyping tool for developing new CIKernels.
Once you've developed a kernel and debugged it in their
interactive debugger, you can then take that kernel
and patch it, and package it as an image unit.
Next you can use CIFilters together with core animation,
which work together very nicely, to spice up your interface,
to add transition, roll-over effects, or subtle transparencies.
Also keep in mind that many of our Macs
these days ship with built-in iSights
with are a great input device to
add interesting effects over.
And most important, amaze your users,
and give them great dynamic control
over images that will wow them and amaze all of us.
So that's the end of our conversation.
We have a lab that follows this, which will be a great time
to talk to all of us for questions and answers periods.
And for more information, contact Allan,
who's our Graphics and Imaging Evangelist,
or check out our documentation
and other resources on the web.